# ETHICAL IMPLICATIONS

   As engineers, and just as importantly, as professionals, we have an obligation to adhere to our responsibilities. In addition, we must ensure that we do 
  so in an ethical manner. This applies to all engineering projects within all engineering groups within all engineering companies within all engineering 
  fields. This of course includes our little group of software and electrical engineers within our little CMPE 131 class. For this project, we will be 
  constructing a simple email client capable of sending messages and having a to-do list. For our web application, we each have a set of responsibilities. 
  As professionals, it is our duty to satisfy these tasks ethically. An example of an ethical responsibility for our web application would be ensuring that
  our users' information such as the username and password does not get leaked within our web application. The method that we are implementing to ensure users' safety is having the account being verified by the user's phone number, so that the web application can confirm that it is that user signing into their account. Additionally, we must construct a functional web application capable of carrying out its functional and non-functional requirements in a reasonable time. We must work together to  ensure our final product is    satisfactory, and nothing less. We must make sure to help each other out when needed. And of course, we must be able to do so on our own. Obviously we may refer to the  class material for help, and sometimes we may feel the need to ask internet forums, but as professionals, we will never plagiarize someone else’s code in any manner and to do so would breach the very ethical professionalism we stand for. 
  
   Engineering solutions to problems, such as our problem of creating a web app, come in many sizes. Some big and some small. The impact, however, can 
  sometimes be impossible to measure. Our project will most likely have little impact in terms of the global scale, but there are many engineering 
  solutions who seem to have surpassed such a scale. For the global and societal contexts impact from our email web application, it will allow users to connect with other users from different parts of the world and learn their culture and speech through emails and chatting. Through the user of computer, user will overtime learn how to type which schools now teach students how to do. For the economic and environmental impacts of our email web application, it will allow the world to cut down on its use of trees to make paper for envelopes and the letter itself as well as reduce the carbon footprint which would be required to send a letter overseas, which would be by plane, or domestically, which would by car or truck. Additionally, this would allow us to spend less on the envelopes and the stamps needed to send letters to a person, but also allows us to spend less on the fuel used by planes, cars, and trucks that are taking the letters to a person and having them send back the letter to repeat the process over and over again.
    
   To summarize, engineering solutions can have positive and negative impacts on our world. Such solutions adhere to professional and ethical 
  responsiblities. Therefore, as engineers ourselves, we must adhere to the same criteria. 
